What I'd like to do now is go
through the solution to the exercise
that I just gave you.
So I'm looking at the CodePen
that's called 2c-end and
I've talked through my solution here.
So let me just scrunch up this window and
show you what I have
here in terms of code.
So I just wrapped a row
around these five figures.
You actually didn't need to add any
additional classes to this or anything.
But you do need to have, of course,
the parents and the children,
the containers and the items.
You've gotta have both of those things
together in order for Flexbox to work.
So having five figures there
on the page is lovely, but
that doesn't help you with Flexbox, so
you've gotta wrap something around it.
So, that's what we did with the HTML and
then here in the CSS, well,
I'll start at the top.
So we're in our class of row display
of flex, flex flow row wrap,
justify content of space evenly.
That's so that these boxes are spaced
evenly very nicely here across the bottom
just like that.
And I align the content in the center,
okay, with a gap of 2%.
And I put in the minimum height of 100vh,
viewport units.
That is so that when we went
to the desktop dimension,
we had that ability for
all those things to go down to the bottom.
And we had the room to work
to stack things on top
of each other here at
that tablet dimensions.
Okay, so then here at tablet dimensions,
I just set my flex basis to 32%,
about a third of the screen here for
everything, and the gap of 2%.
And again, you could do the math
to figure that part out.
So then when you go into your media
queries, you need to ask yourself,
what changes?
So what changes as I move across
from small screen to big screen
generally speaking?
It could also be from big screen to
small screen, but what is changing and
those are the things we need to reset.
So we don't have to completely reset our
declarations over and over and over again.
So in other words, I don't have to say
display flex again inside of my desktop
media query, I can just say this.
I wanna change my justify content from
space evenly at my tablet media query.
And I wanna change it to justify content
of center when I get to the larger screen.
My align content which is center here,
okay,
it gives us this cool
center sort of effect.
I'm gonna change that instead to
flex end at those larger dimensions.
So everything is stacking up
here at the bottom of my screen
in this particular case.
Everything packs down here at
the bottom and then the gap.
I redeclared the gap,
I didn't actually have to do that but
I redeclared the gap of 2%.
And then I set up my figure width
here to be a flex basis of 18.4%.
If you have a gap of 2% and
you're working with centered content here,
in order to space things all out and
do the math.
That was the number that I came up with,
okay?
So you just type it in,
whatever the number happens to be.
So that's how you could get
a crazy thing like this to happen.
Now, one of the cool things about this
particular layout is this is a kinda
layout that it is just not
possible inside of Grid.
So the fact that we have these five boxes,
and that they're centered here very
nicely on the web page,
especially at tablet dimensions.
That's not something that
you can do with Grid.
It is something that is unique to Flexbox.
>> Could you use the calc
function within flex-basis?
>> Sure, yes, absolutely,
you can use the calc function.
So I have a course here at Frontend
Masters called Advanced CSS layouts.
And in that course I walk
through a whole lot of calc and
CSS variable stuff to do all kinds of
wild and crazy things with page layouts.
You could absolutely use calc and
variables in anything that
I'm doing here today.
I've chosen not to use them in this
particular course because this is more
oriented towards beginners or
people who are focusing maybe on HTML and
CSS for the first time.
And then a lot of you are learning
JavaScript first, and
you're coming back and
learning HTML and CSS after the fact.
So, to try to keep my examples
as straightforward and
easy to read as possible,
I've kept calc and variables out of it.
But if you're interested in learning
more about how you can do that,
if you're not sure about how to do that,
you can watch my advanced CSS layouts
course here at Frontend Masters.